cat(1) -- concatenate and print files
=====================================

## SYNOPSIS

`cat` [-o <opts>] [<file>...]

## DESCRIPTION

The **cat** command reads files sequentially, writing them to standard output.
If <file> operands are present, they are assumed to be either strings
representing pathnames or objects which implement the read(2) interface and
are processed in command-line order. In case of pathnames, these are converted
into File objects by lookup(2). The read(2) method is invoked on those objects
which implement it and the results of the read are returned to standard output.
Those objects which do not support read(2) are simply passed through to standard
output.

If <file> is absent, then **cat** reads from the standard input until EOF.
As with the <file> arguments, objects which support read(2) are read and the
contents returned, and those which don't are simply passed through. Strings
are passed through and not assumed to be filenames.

By default, the entire contents of the read(2)able object are returned. These
are usually in the form of Blob(5), and must be converted to the desired type
using to(1).

The following options are available:

  * `-o ` <opts>:
    Options in the options(7) format which are passed down to read(2). **cat**
    does not inspect any of the options.
    
## DIAGNOSTICS

The **cat** command exits with `true` on success and non-`true` if an error
occurs.

## EXAMPLES

Read a file and display contents on terminal:

    $ cat /etc/motd

Read multiple files and display contents on terminal:

    $ cat /etc/motd /etc/rc.sh

Same as above, but as File(2) objects from standard input:

    $ ls /etc/motd /etc/rc.sh | cat

Read a URL:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/sample/photos/bchips.jpg

Display a PDF:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/sample/clickingofcuthbert.pdf

Read this manpage:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/v/0.6.0/usr/share/man/cat.1.html

Convert the manpage to text:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/v/0.6.0/usr/share/man/cat.1.html | to text

Read a pipeline:

    $ cat ${echo hello world; echo hello again}

## SEE ALSO

to(1), options(7), read(2)
