grep(1) -- Object pattern searcher
==========================

## SYNOPSIS

`grep` [-iv] [-f <field>] <regex> [<obj>...]<br>
`grep` [-v] -e <expr> [<obj>...]

## DESCRIPTION

**grep** searches input objects, selecting those which match a condition and
outputs them. In the first form, the condition is specified as a regexp(3)
pattern and is matched against the string representation of the <field>
attribute, if specified, or the string representation of the object. In the
second form, the condition is evaluated by a Javascript expression specified
in <expr> where `x` corresponds to a given input object.

Input objects which are strings or blobs are split into lines of text,
and each line is treated as a separate input object.

If no <obj> arguments are supplied, **grep** reads objects from standard input. 

The following options are available:

  * `-i`:
    Case insensitive matching. By default, **grep** is case sensitive.

  * `-v`:
    Selected objects are those _not_ matching the specified condition.

  * <regex>:
    A Javascript regular expression in the regexp(3) format.

  * `-e` <expr>:
    A Javascript expression in `x`, evaluated with `x` bound to the current
    input object.

## DIAGNOSTICS

**grep** exits with `true` if there was at least one match. Otherwise it
exits with a non-`true` value.

## NOTE

It must be stressed that **grep** is an _object_ grep, not a file grep. In
other words, `grep '[Pp]igshell' /home/doc/*md` treats the arguments as string
objects, not files whose contents must be matched against the given pattern.

To grep files in the manner of UNIX grep, use the fgrep(1) script.

## EXAMPLES

Find GDrive files whose mime type field contains the string 'spreadsheet':

    $ ls /gdrive | grep -f mime spreadsheet

Find text within an HTML file:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/sample/life-expectancy.html | grep -i india

Find countries with life expectancy < 50:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/sample/life-expectancy.html | table2js -e "tr" foo country data | grep -e '+x.data < 50' | printf

## SEE ALSO

fgrep(1), regexp(3)
