rm(1) -- remove files
=====================

## SYNOPSIS

`rm` [-rvn] [-o <opts>] [<file>...]

## DESCRIPTION

**rm** attempts to remove all specified <file>s, **including** directories.  No
attempt is made to ask for confirmation. **EXTREME CAUTION** must be exercised
while using **rm**, as it can easily wipe out every single file connected to
_pigshell_ in one command. This includes all Google docs, GDrive files, Dropbox
files and other data sources mounted on _pigshell_. Since most cloud stores
don't expose a one-click nuclear button, users may not anticipate the risk.

If no <file> is specified in the arguments, **rm** reads standard input,
looking for File(2) objects produced by ls(1) and attempts to remove them.

There are a few safety mechanisms built-in to **rm**. Heuristics are used to
detect `rm -r /` either as a direct invocation, or indirectly via `rm -r
/../..///..` or `rm -r $NONEXISTENT/*`. On detection, a message is printed to
standard error and the operation is aborted.

Recursive removal is disabled, unless the environment variable `DEATHSTAR` is
set.

The following options are supported:

  * `-r`:
    Recursively remove the file hierarchy located at <file>. Like with the `-R`
    option of ls(1), files which implement readdir(2) but mark themselves
    "nodescend" will not be traversed as directories.

  * `-v`:
    Verbose reporting of removal activity. One line is printed per file to
    standard error.

  * `-n`:
    Go through the motions, but don't actually remove the files. In combination
    with `-v`, this option is used to estimate the impact of **rm** before
    carrying it out.

  * `-o ` <opts>:
    Options in the options(7) format which are passed down. **rm** does not
    inspect any of the options.

## ENVIRONMENT

The `DEATHSTAR` environment variable affects the execution of **rm** as
described above.

## DIAGNOSTICS

The **rm** command exits with `true` on success and non-`true` if an error
occurs.

## EXAMPLES

Simple rm:

    $ rm /etc/motd

Recursive rm:

    $ DEATHSTAR=1
    $ cp -r /etc /tmp/
    $ rm -r /tmp/etc

Remove all spreadsheets from Google Drive:

    $ ls /gdrive/username@gmail.com | grep -f mime spreadsheet | rm

## BUGS

_Pigshell_ filesystems don't (yet) honour readonly mount options or file level
read-write permissions. Permissions are enforced by the backend data stores.
