to(1) -- convert to type
========================

## SYNOPSIS

`to` [-g] [-m <mime>] [<type>] [<obj>...]

## DESCRIPTION

**to** is a utility to convert data from one type to another. The source
type is inferred from the object and <type> is the destination type. Supported
types include `text`, `blob`, `canvas` and `arraybuffer`. Not all combinations
are possible or supported. 

**to** is typically used to bridge the gap between commands which expect data
in a format different from that produced by the one upstream.  It is also used
as the terminal command in a pipeline to force data to be displayed in a
certain format.

The following options are supported:

  * `-g`:
    Gathers all available input objects before attempting the conversion. In
    the absence of this option, each input object is converted and output
    individually.

  * `-m` <mime>:
    In case the destination <type> is `blob`, this option can be used to
    specify the mime type of the blob.

  * <type>:
    Specifies the destination type, and is one of `text`, `blob`, `canvas`
    and `arraybuffer`. Not all possible combinations are supported.


## NOTE

Most commands which require data in a given format already use to(3) internally
to carry out the conversion. However, generic filters like jf(1) usually need
a to(1) to coerce data into whatever is expected by the filter expression.

## DIAGNOSTICS

The **to** command exits with `true` on success and non-`true` if an error
occurs.

## EXAMPLES

Force HTML to be displayed as text, rather than in an iframe:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/sample/gdp-ppp.html | to text

Gather all the data fragments produced by wsh into a single blob:

    $ cat http://pigshell.com/sample/oslogos.png | wsh convert -implode 1 - - | to -g blob

Convert a JSON file into Javascript objects.

    $ cat /some/file.json | to text | jf 'JSON.parse(x)' | head | printf

## SEE ALSO

jf(1), to(3)
