Amazon S3 on Pigshell
========================

_Pigshell_ lets you mount Amazon S3 as a filesystem and interact with its
contents using a Unix-like CLI - entirely within the browser. The
implementation is very basic at the moment, but you can view buckets, create
and destroy objects and retrieve their contents.

## Getting Started ##

> Another such filesystem and we are undone. - Pyrrhus of Epirus

AWS turns out to be much more complicated than the average cloud service
when it comes to accessing from Javascript.

First, go to [http://pigshell.com](http://pigshell.com), click on the Amazon
icon and the **Add Amazon Account** popup. This will redirect you to the
**Login With Amazon** authentication screen. Once you have logged in, you
need to retrieve your Amazon id. This can be done with the _pigshell_ command

    pig:/$ cat /auth/amazon/foo@bar.com/userinfo/user_id

where `foo@bar.com` is the address used for **Login With Amazon**. The id is
a string like `amzn1.account.SFASKJFKGKGMTKMKMVKM3453MSD`. Note this down,
we'll need this for the next step.

Now we create an IAM role and policy allowing this user to access AWS
resources. You could do this using the AWS console, but the easiest way is to
install the Python-based AWS CLI, like so:

    bash$ pip install awscli
    bash$ aws configure

You need to supply your access key and secret to the AWS CLI.

Now use the [iam-role.sh](https://github.com/pigshell/pigshell/tree/v0.7/etc)
bash script found in the etc directory of the pigshell sources.

    bash$ bash iam-role.sh create amzn1.account.SFASKJFKGKGMTKMKMVKM3453MSD

This script creates a role allowing the Amazon user, when authenticated via the
_pigshell_ site, to access the S3 resources of the AWS user. If successful, it
prints a role ARN, which looks like `arn:aws:iam::47922347913:role/pigshell-me`.

S3 is not automounted. To mount, use the _pigshell_ command

    pig:/$ mount -t s3 -o user=foo@bar.com,arn=arn:aws:iam::233362444106:role/pigshell-me /mnt

You also need to be running the [psty](psty) proxy. While it is possible to
set CORS policies on buckets to allow direct access, there is still no way
to list buckets in a CORS-enabled manner.

## Usage

To list the buckets in S3,

    cd /mnt
    ls

To list objects in a given bucket,

    cd /mnt/bucketname
    ls

`cat`, `cp`, `rm` behave as usual on objects.

## Issues and Limitations ##

-   No support for creating/removing buckets.
-   Only the first 1000 objects in each bucket are listed.
-   The psty proxy needs to be running.
